well I'm here at the silver grill in the
Willamette Valley in Oregon and as you
can see it is blueberry harvest season
they use them in everything some of the
best foods you've ever eaten in your
life from right here now what I'm gonna
do is but these guys get to work in the
kitchen and I'm gonna head back out into
the blueberry fields and see where these
beauties come from gone
I love the berries well why do you like
ovair so much well they're sweet and
they taste wonderful and the great
antioxidants and I have a wonderful
blueberry pancake recipe that I use I
put them in the freezer and you don't
have to peel them or pitting or shuck
them you just put them in in a bag and
got a all year long I got blueberries
for my breakfast or whatever
blueberry plant lives pretty much
forever they just get larger and larger
and produce more fruit as the years go
on Raymond I cannot believe that the
amount the sheer amount of blueberries
all these plants I mean the limbs are
even weighted down to the ground yes
it's typical this is what we expect here
every year the bush is almost collapsed
from the way of their berries oh my word
and they're so delicious too yes any
different varieties do you have here on
your you pick farm we have four
different varieties there we have three
midseason varieties and one early I see
and that that progression of fruit
allows you to have an extended picking
season yes yeah well I see lots of happy
customers out here picking today we
usually have a lot of customers on the
property yeah yeah and and what is the
range of time that that they're allowed
to come out and pick fourth of July
fourth of July is when the blueberries
begin and it goes all the way till the
middle of September without any late
season varieties that extends you into
October I'll probably plant some of
those soon well it's just amazing I tell
me a little bit about the age of these
plans we first started planting
blueberries in 1979 my dad started the
project there weren't many blueberries
raised in the valley at that time but he
saw that there's an opportunity in that
market so so with these plants having
been planted in the late 70s early 80s
they're approximately thirty years old
yes all right man I see that most of
your plants are roughly the same size in
each row is there a is there a rule of
thumb to follow on on pruning and height
mostly just so that you can still reach
the fruit I've seen fields where the
bushes were over well overhead high then
of course you can't reach anything to
pick it you'd have to bring a ladder out
if you would there are 13 acres of
blueberries here blueberries are
fertilized with what's known as a
balanced mix so it's an equal number for
each of the year major nutrients in this
case we use a triple 14 I see and how
often do you fertilize three times a
spring right at a right as the first
leaves come out then a little later in
the last time as the blueberries
themselves are starting to develop and
that's important I'm sure for the health
of the plant but also for a really
generous yield they tend to grow
themselves to death they if you don't
prune them heavily they produce
gajillion zuv berries and if they're you
prune them heavy that's an enormous toys
overly generous too they can't good for
their own that's right
well I must say I'm intrigued I haven't
seen any bird tell me a little bit about
how you keep the birds away sure the it
is a real challenge blueberries are
delicious the birds love them as much as
we do if you hear in the background it
sounds like there are birds singing in
fact that's the recording of little
birds being attacked and killed by
predator birds oh my word you're sending
the message yesterday all right what a
what a great environmentally friendly
way to handle a past and a problem yes
of course along with producing healthy
fruit which does take effort we also
want to make sure of course that it's
healthy for our customers
you